<style>
.center {
  width: auto;
  display: table;
  margin-left: auto;
  margin-right: auto;
}
</style>

# Homework Archive

## Week 1

!!! question
    (1) Write out an addition table for $\mathbf{Z}_2 \oplus \mathbf{Z}_2$. $\mathbf{Z}_2 \oplus \mathbf{Z}_2$ is called the **Klein four group**.

    (2) Proof the following conditions on a group $G$ are equivalent:  
        (i) $G$ is Abelian;  
        (ii) $(ab)^2=a^2b^2, \forall a, b \in G$;  
        (iii) $(ab)^{-1}=a^{-1}b^{-1}, \forall a, b \in G$;  
        (iv) $(ab)^n=a^nb^n, \forall n \in \mathbf{Z}, a, b \in G$;  
        (v) $(ab)^n=a^nb^n$ for three consectuive integers $n$ and all $a, b \in G$.  
        And show that $(v) \Rightarrow (i)$ is false if "three" is replaced by "two". 
     
    (3) Let $Q_8$ be the group (under ordinary matrix multiplication) generated by the complex matrices $A = \begin{pmatrix} 0 & 1 \\ -1 & 0 \end{pmatrix}$ and $B = \begin{pmatrix} 0 & i \\ i & 0 \end{pmatrix}$, where $i^2=-1$. Show that $Q_8$ is a nonabelian group of order 8. $Q_8$ is called the **quaternion group**.[Hint: Observe that $BA = A^3B$, whence every element of $Q_8$ is of the form $A^iB^j$. Note also that $A^4=B^4=I$, where $I = \begin{pmatrix} 1 & 0 \\ 0 & 1 \end{pmatrix}$ is the identity element of $Q_8$.]  

    (4) List all subgroups of $\mathbf{Z}_2 \oplus \mathbf{Z}_2$. Is $\mathbf{Z}_2 \oplus \mathbf{Z}_2$ isomorphic to $\mathbf{Z}_4$?  

    (5) Let $G$ be an abelian group containing elements $a$ and $b$ of orders $m$ and $n$ respectively. Show that $G$ contains an element whose order is the least common multiple of $m$ and $n$. [Hint: First try the case when $(m,n) = 1$.]  

    (6) Let $G$ be the multiplicative group of all nonsingular $2 \times 2$ matrices with rational entries. Show that $a = \begin{pmatrix} 0 & -1 \\ 1 & 0 \end{pmatrix}$ has order 4 and $b = \begin{pmatrix} 0 & 1 \\ -1 & -1 \end{pmatrix}$ has order 3, but $ab$ has infinite order. Conversely, show that the additive group $\mathbf{Z}_2 \oplus \mathbf{Z}$ contains nonzero elements $a, b$ of infinite order such that $a+b$ has finite order. 

??? note "Answer" 
    (1) The addition table is shown as below.  
    <div class='center'>
    <table border='1'>
        <tr>
            <td align='center'>$+$</td> 
            <td>$(\overline{0}, \overline{0})$</td> 
            <td>$(\overline{0}, \overline{1})$</td> 
            <td>$(\overline{1}, \overline{0})$</td>
            <td>$(\overline{1}, \overline{1})$</td> 
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>$(\overline{0}, \overline{0})$</td>  
            <td>$(\overline{0}, \overline{0})$</td>
            <td>$(\overline{0}, \overline{1})$</td> 
            <td>$(\overline{1}, \overline{0})$</td>
            <td>$(\overline{1}, \overline{1})$</td> 
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>$(\overline{0}, \overline{1})$</td> 
            <td>$(\overline{0}, \overline{1})$</td>
            <td>$(\overline{0}, \overline{0})$</td> 
            <td>$(\overline{1}, \overline{1})$</td>
            <td>$(\overline{1}, \overline{0})$</td>
        <tr>
            <td>$(\overline{1}, \overline{0})$</td> 
            <td>$(\overline{1}, \overline{0})$</td>
            <td>$(\overline{1}, \overline{1})$</td> 
            <td>$(\overline{0}, \overline{0})$</td>
            <td>$(\overline{0}, \overline{1})$</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>$(\overline{1}, \overline{1})$</td> 
            <td>$(\overline{1}, \overline{1})$</td>
            <td>$(\overline{1}, \overline{0})$</td> 
            <td>$(\overline{0}, \overline{1})$</td>
            <td>$(\overline{0}, \overline{0})$</td>
        </tr>
    </table>
    </div>  

    (2) (i) $\Leftrightarrow$ (ii): If $G$ is Abelian, then $(ab)^2 = (ab)(ab) = a(ba)b = a(ab)b = a^2b^2, \forall a, b \in G$; We know that $(ab)^2 = abab$. If $(ab)^2 = a^2b^2$, then we have $a^2b^2 = aabb = abab$. Using the cancellation law, we have $ab = ba, \forall a, b \in G$, which means $G$ is Abelian.  
    (i) $\Leftrightarrow$ (iii): If $G$ is Abelian, then $(ab)^{-1} = b^{-1}a^{-1} = a^{-1}b^{-1}, \forall a, b \in G$; If $(ab)^{-1} = a^{-1}b^{-1} = b^{-1}a^{-1}$, then $(a^{-1})^{-1}(b^{-1})^{-1} = ab = ba = (b^{-1})^{-1}(a^{-1})^{-1}, \forall a, b \in G$.  
    (i) $\Leftrightarrow$ (iv): If $G$ is Abelian, then $ab = ba, \forall a, b \in G$. Suppose that $(ab)^n = a^nb^n, \forall n \in \mathbf{N}^*$. So $(ab)^{n+1} = (ab)(ab)^n = (ab)a^nb^n = a(ba^n)b^n = aa^nbb^n = a^{n+1}b^{n+1}, \forall n \in \mathbf{N}^*, a, b \in G$. We also know that $(ab)^{-1} = b^{-1}a^{-1} = a^{-1}b^{-1}, \forall a, b \in G$. So suppose $(ab)^{-n} = a^{-n}b^{-n}, \forall n \in \mathbf{N}^*$. Then $(ab)^{-(n+1)} = (ab)^{-1}(ab)^{-n} = a^{-1}b^{-1}a^{-n}b^{-n} = a^{-1}a^{-n}b^{-1}b^{-n} = a^{-(n+1)}b^{-(n+1)}, \forall  n \in \mathbf{N}^*, a, b \in G$. And $(ab)^0 = e = e^2 = a^0b^0$. So $(ab)^n=a^nb^n, \forall n \in \mathbf{Z}, a, b \in G$; If $(ab)^n=a^nb^n, \forall n \in \mathbf{Z}, a, b \in G$, then let $n = 2$. From (ii) we can easily proof that $G$ is Abelian.  
    (i) $\Leftrightarrow$ (v) If $G$ is Abelian, it's obvious(from (iv)). If $(ab)^n=a^nb^n$ for three consectuive integers $n$ and all $a, b \in G$, which means $(ab)^k = a^kb^k, (ab)^{k+1} = a^{k+1}b^{k+1}, (ab)^{k+2} = a^{k+2}b^{k+2}, \exists k \in \mathbf{Z}$. So $(ab)^{k+1} = (ab)(ab)^k = aba^kb^k = a^{k+1}b^{k+1}$. Using the cancellation law, we have $ba^k = a^kb$. And $(ab)^{k+2} = (ab)^2(ab)^k = ababa^kb^k = a^{k+2}b^{k+2}$. Using the cancellation law, we have $ba = a^{k+1}b^2a^{-k}b^{-1} = a(a^kb)ba^{-k}b^{-1} = ab(a^kb)a^{-k}b^{-1} = abba^ka^{-k}b^{-1} = ab, \forall a, b \in G$. So $G$ is Abelian.  
    It's obvious that $(v) \Rightarrow (i)$ is false if "three" is replaced by "two", for $(ab)^0 = a^0b^0$ and $(ab)^1 = a^1b^1$ are always correct.

    (3) $A = \begin{pmatrix} 0 & 1 \\ -1 & 0 \end{pmatrix}$, $A^2 = \begin{pmatrix} -1 & 0 \\ 0 & -1 \end{pmatrix} = -I$, $A^3 = -A$, $A^4 = I$.  
    $B = \begin{pmatrix} 0 & i \\ i & 0 \end{pmatrix}$, $B^2 = \begin{pmatrix} -1 & 0 \\ 0 & -1 \end{pmatrix} = -I$, $B^3 = -B$, $B^4 = I$.  
    $BA = \begin{pmatrix} -i & 0 \\ 0 & i \end{pmatrix}$, $AB = \begin{pmatrix} i & 0 \\ 0 & -i \end{pmatrix}$. $BA = -AB = (-I)AB = A^2AB = A^3B$.  
    So $B^iA^j = A^kB^i, \forall i, j, \exists k \in \mathbf{Z}$, whence every element of $Q_8$ is of the form $A^iB^j$. From this, we have $Q_8 = \{I, A, A^2 = -I = B^2, A^3 = -A, B, AB, A^2B = -B = B^3, A^3B = -AB\}$. So $Q_8$ is a nonabelian group of order 8.

## Week 2

!!! question
    (1) (Euler-Fermat) Let $a$ be a integer and $p$ a prime such that $p \nmid a$. Then $a^{p-1} \equiv 1 \pmod p$.[Hint: Consider $\overline{a} \in \mathbf{Z}_p$ and the multiplicative group of nonzero elements of $\mathbf{Z}_p$.] It follows that $a^p \equiv a \pmod p$ for any integer $a$.   

    (2) Let $G$ be a group of order $2n$; then $G$ contains an element of order 2. If $n$ is odd and $G$ abelian, there is only one element of order 2.  
    
    (3) (i) If $G$ is a group, then the **center** of $G$ is a normal subgroup of $G$.(Center: $C=\{a \in G \mid ax=xa, \forall x \in G\}$.)  
        (ii) The center of $S_n$ is the identity subgroup for all $n>2$.   
    
    (4) If $f: G \rightarrow H$ is a homomorphism with kernel $N$ and $K<G$, then prove that $f^{-1}(f(K))=KN$. Hence $f^{-1}(f(K))=K$ iff $N<K$.  
    
    (5) Show that $N=\{(1), (12)(34), (13)(24), (14)(23)\}$ is a normal subgroup of $S_4$ contained in $A_4$ such that $S_4/N \cong S_3$ and $A_4/N \cong Z_4$.  
    
    (6) Find all normal subgroups of $D_n$. 

??? note "Answer" 
    (5) First proof that $N$ is a subgroup of $S_4$ and $A_4$. Note that $i, j, k, l \in \{1, 2, 3, 4\}$,  two of which are different.   
        (i) $e = (1) \in N$;  
        (ii) $((ij)(kl))^2 = e$, which means $((ij)(kl))^{-1} = ((ij)(kl)) \in N$;  
        (iii) $((ij)(kl)) \circ ((ik)(jl)) = (il)(jk)$  
    Let $\delta \in N, \sigma \in S_4$.  
        (i) If $\delta = e$, then $\sigma \delta \sigma^{-1} = e \in N$;  
        (ii) If $\delta \neq e$ and $\delta$ is even, then 

## Week 3

!!! question
    (i) A subset $X$ of an abelian group $F$ is said to be **linearly independent** if $n_1x_1 + \cdots + n_kx_k = 0$ always implies $n_i = 0$ for all $i$ (where $n_i \in \mathbf{Z}$ and $x_1, \ldots ,x_k$ are distinct elements of $X$).  
    (a) $X$ is linearly independent if and only if every nonzero element of the subgroup $\langle X \rangle$ may be written uniquely in the form $n_1x_1 + \cdots + n_kx_k$ ($n_i \in \mathbf{Z}, n_i \neq 0, x_1, \ldots ,x_k$ distinct elements of $X$).  
    (b) If $F$ is free abelian of finite rank $n$, it is not true that every linearly independent subset of $n$ elements is a basis [Hint: consider $F = \mathbf{Z}$].  
    (c) If $F$ is free abelian, it is not true that every linearly independent subset of $F$ may be extended to a basis of $F$.  
    (d) If $F$ is free abelian, it is not true that every generating set of $F$ contains a basis of $F$. However, if $F$ is also finitely generated by $n$ elements, $F$ has rank $m \leqslant n$.

    (ii) (a) Show that the additive group of rationals $\mathbf{Q}$ is not finitely generated.   
    (b) Show that \mathbf{Q} is not free.   
    (c) Conclude that Exercise 9 is false if the hypothesis "finitely generated" is omitted.  
    Exercise 9: Let $G$ be a finitely generated abelian group in which no element (except 0) has finite order. Then $G$ is a free abelian group.   

    (iii) Let $k, m \in N^*$. If $(k,m) = 1$, then $k\mathbf{Z}_m = \mathbf{Z}_m$ and $\mathbf{Z}_m[k] = 0$. If $k \mid m$, say $m = kd$, then $k\mathbf{Z}_m \cong \mathbf{Z}_d$ and $\mathbf{Z}_m[k] \cong \mathbf{Z}_k$

    (iv)  (a) What are the elementary divisors of the group $\mathbf{Z}_2 \oplus \mathbf{Z}_9 \oplus \mathbf{Z}_{35}$; what are its invariant factors? Do the same for $\mathbf{Z}_{26} \oplus \mathbf{Z}_{42} \oplus \mathbf{Z}_{49} \oplus \mathbf{Z}_{200} \oplus \mathbf{Z}_{1000}$.  
    (b) Determine up to isomorphism all abelian groups of order 64; do the same for order 96.  
    (c) Determine all abelian groups of order $n$ for $n \leqslant 20$.

## Week 4

!!! question
    (i) If $\lvert G \rvert = p^nq$, with $p > q$ primes, then $G$ contains a unique normal subgroup of index $q$.  

    (ii) Every group $G$ of order $p^2$ ($p$ prime) is abelian [Hint: Exercise 4.9 and Corollary 5.4].  
    Exercise 4.9: If $G/C(G)$ is cyclic, then $G$ is abelian.  
    Corollary 5.4: The center $C(G)$ of a nontrivial finite $p$-group $G$ contains more than one element.  

    (iii) Consider the set $G = \{\pm 1, \pm i, \pm j, \pm k\}$ with multiplication given by $i^2 = j^2 = k^2 = -1$; $ij = k; jk = i, ki = j$; $ji = -k, kj = -i, ik = -j$, and the usual rules for multiplying by $\pm 1$. Show that $G$ is a group isomorphic to the quaternion group $Q_8$.  

    (iv) (a) Show that there is a nonabelian subgroup $T$ of $S_3 \times \mathbf{Z}_4$ of order 12 generated by elements $a, b$ such that $\lvert a \rvert = 6$, $a^3 = b^2$, $ba = a^{-1}b$.   
    (b) Any group of order 12 with generators $a, b$ such that $\lvert a \rvert = 6$, $a^3 = b^2$, $ba = a^{-1}b$ is isomorphic to $T$.  

## Week 5

!!! question
    (i) (a) $A_4$ is not the direct product of its Sylow subgroups, but $A_4$ does have the property: $mn = 12$ and $(m, n) = 1$ imply there is a subgroup of order $m$.   
    (b) $S_3$ has subgroups of orders 1, 2, 3, and 6 but is not the direct product of its Sylow subgroups.

    (ii) If $D_n$ is the dihedral group with generators $a$ of order $n$ and $b$ of order $2$, then   
    (a) $a^2 \in D_n'$.  
    (b) If $n$ is odd, $D_n' \cong Z_n$.  
    (c) If $n$ is even, $Dn' \cong Z_m$, where $2m = n$.  
    (d) $D_n$ is nilpotent if and only if $n$ is a power of 2.  

    (iii) (a) Find a normal series of $D_4$ consisting of 4 subgroups.  
    (b) Find all composition series of the group $D_4$.  
    (c) Do part (b) for the group $A_4$.  
    (d) Do part (b) for the group $S_3 \times \mathbf{Z}_2$.  
    (e) Find all composition factors of $S_4$ and $D_6$.  

    (iv) (a) Let $G$ be an (additive) abelian group. Define an operation of multiplication in $G$ by $ab = 0$ (for all $a, b \in G$). Then $G$ is a ring.  
    (b) Let $S$ be the set of all subsets of some fixed set $U$. For $A, B \in S$, define $A + B = (A - B) \cup (B - A)$ and $AB = A \cap B$. Then $S$ is a ring. Is $S$ commutative? Does it have an identity?

    (v) Let $R$ be the set of all $2 \times 2$ matrices over the complex field $\mathbf{C}$ of the form  

    $$
        \begin{pmatrix} z & w \\ -\overline{w} & \overline{z} \end{pmatrix},
    $$

    where $\overline{z}, \overline{w}$ are the complex conjugates of $z$ and $w$ respectively (that is, $c = a+b\sqrt{-1} \Leftrightarrow \overline{c} = a-b\sqrt{-1}$). Then $R$ is a division ring that is isomorphic to the division ring $K$ of real quaternions. Hint: Define an isomorphism $\varphi K \rightarrow R $ by letting the images of $1, i, j, k \in K$ be respectively the matrices  

    $$
        \begin{pmatrix} 1 & 0 \\ 0 & 1 \end{pmatrix}, \begin{pmatrix} \sqrt{-1} & 0 \\ 0 & -\sqrt{-1} \end{pmatrix}, \begin{pmatrix} 0 & 1 \\ -1 & 0 \end{pmatrix}, \begin{pmatrix} 0 & \sqrt{-1} \\ \sqrt{-1} & 0 \end{pmatrix},
    $$

    (vi) (a) The subset $G = \{1, -1, i, -i, j, -j, k, -k\}$ of the division ring $K$ of real quaternions forms a group under multiplication.  
    (b) $G$ is isomorphic to the quaternion group (Exercises I.4.14 and I.2.3).  
    (c) What is the difference between the ring $K$ and the group ring $R(G)$ ($R$ the field of real numbers)?

??? note "证明"
    (iii) (a) $D_4 = \langle a, b \mid a^4 = b^2 = e, ba = a^{-1}b \rangle$. 其中 $\langle a \rangle = \{e, a, a^2, a^3\}$, $\langle a^2 \rangle = \{e, a^2\}$. 所以 $D_4 > \langle a \rangle > \langle a^2 \rangle > \langle e \rangle$ 是一个正规列.  
    (b) 考虑 $D_4$ 的极大正规子群，

## Week 6

!!! question
    (i) (a) The center of the ring $S$ of all $2 \times 2$ matrices over a field $F$ consists of all matrices of the form $\begin{pmatrix} a & 0 \\ 0 & a \end{pmatrix}$.  
    (b) The center of $S$ is not an ideal in $S$.  
    (c) What is the center of the ring of all $n \times n$ matrices over a division ring?

    (ii) (a) Show that $\mathbf{Z}$ is a principal ideal ring [see Theorem I.3.1].  
    (b) Every homomorphic image of a principal ideal ring is also a principal ideal ring.  
    (c) $Z_m$ is a principal ideal ring for every $m > 0$. 

    (iii) Determine all prime and maximal ideals in the ring $\mathbf{Z}_m$.  

    (iv) An element $e$ in a ring $R$ is said to be idempotent if $e^2 = e$. An element of the center of the ring $R$ is said to be central. If $e$ is a central idempotent in a ring $R$ with identity, then  
    (a) $1_R-e$ is a central idempotent;  
    (b) $eR$ and $(1_R-e)R$ are ideals in $R$ such that $R = $eR \times (1_R-e)R$. 

    (v) Let $R$ be the subring $\{a+b\sqrt{10} \mid a, b \in \mathbf{Z}\}$ of the field of real numbers.  
    (a) The map $N: R \rightarrow \mathbf{Z}$ given by $a+b\sqrt{10} \mapsto (a+b\sqrt{10})(a-b\sqrt{10}) = a^2-10b^2$ is such that $N(uv) = N(u)N(v)$ for all $u,v \in R$ and $N(u) = 0$ if and only if $u = 0$.  
    (b) $u$ is a unit in $R$ if and only if $N(u) = \pm 1$.  
    (c) $2, 3, 4+\sqrt{10}$ and $4-\sqrt{10}$ are irreducible elements of $R$.  
    (d) $2, 3, 4+\sqrt{10}$ and $4-\sqrt{10}$ are not prime elements of $R$. [Hint: $3 \cdot 2 = 6 = (4+\sqrt{10})(4-\sqrt{10})$].  

    (v)  Show that in the integral domain of Exercise 3 every element can be factored into a product of irreducibles, but this factorization need not be unique (in the sense of Definition 3.5 (ii)). 

## Week 7

!!! question
    (i) (a) If $a$ and $n4 are integers, $n>0$, then there exist integers $q$ and $r$ such that $a = qn+r$, where $\lvert r \rvert < n/2$.  
    (b) The Gaussian integers $\mathbf{Z}[\sqrt{-1}]$ form a Euclidean domain with $\varphi(a+b\sqrt{-1}) = a^2 + b^2$ [Hint: To show that Definition 3.8(ii) holds, first let $y = a+b\sqrt{-1}$ and assume $x$ is a positive integer. By part (a) there are integers such that $a = q_1x+r_1$ and $b = q_2x+r_2$, with $\lvert r_1 \rvert < x/2$, $\lvert r_2 \rvert < x/2$. Let $q = q_1 + q_2\sqrt{-1}$ and $r = r_1+r_2\sqrt{-1}$; then $y = qx+r$, with $r = 0$ or $\varphi(r) < \varphi(x)$. In the general case, observe that for $x = c+d\sqrt{-1} \neq 0$ and $\overline{x} = c-d\sqrt{-1}$, $x\overline{x} > 0$. There are $q, r_0 \in \mathbf{Z}[\sqrt{-1}]$ such that $y\overline{x} = q(x\overline{x})+r_0$, with $r_0 = 0$ or $\varphi(r_0) < \varphi(x\overline{x})$. Let $r = y-qx$; then $y = qx+r$ and $r = 0$ or $\varphi(r) < \varphi(x)$.]  

    (ii) (a) The set $E$ of positive even integers is a multiplicative subset of $\mathbf{Z}$ such that $E^{-1}\mathbf{Z}$ is the field of rational numbers.  
    (b) State and prove condition(s) on a multiplicative subset $S$ of $\mathbf{Z}$ which insure that $S^{-1}\mathbf{Z}$ is the field of rationals. 

    (iii) If $S = \{2, 4\}$ and $R = \mathbf{Z}_6$, then $S^{-1}R$ is isomorphic to the field $\mathbf{Z}_3$. Consequently, the converse of Theorem 4.3(ii) is false.  

    (iv) (a) If $R$ is the ring of all $2 \times 2$ matrices over $\mathrm{Z}$, then for any $A in R$, 
    
    $$
        (x + A)(x - A) = x^2 - A^2 \in R[x]. 
    $$

    (b) There exist $C, A \in R$ such that $(C + A)(C - A) \neq C^2 - A^2$. Therefore, Corollary 5.6 is false if the rings involved are not commutative. 

    (v) (a) If $F$ is a field then every nonzero element of $F[[x]]$ is of the form $x^ku$ with $u \in F[[x]]$ a unit.   
    (b) $F[[x]]$ is a principal ideal domain whose only ideals are $0, F[[x]] = (1_F) = (x^0)$ and $(x^k)$ for each $k > 1$.

## Week 8

!!! question
    (i) (a) If $D$ is an integral domain and $c$ is an irreducible element in $D$, then $D[x]$ is not a principal ideal domain. [Hint: consider the ideal $(x,c)$ generated by $x4 and $c$.]  
    (b) $\mathrm{Z}[x]$ is not a principal ideal domain.  
    (c) If $F$ is a field and $n > 2$, then $F[x_1, \ldots , x_n]$ is not a principal ideal domain. [Hint: show that $x_1$ is irreducible in $F[x_1, \ldots , x_{n-1}]$.]

    (ii) Let $f$ be a polynomial of positive degree over an integral domain $D$.   
    (a) If $\mathrm{char} D = 0$, then $f' \neq 0$.  
    (b) If $\mathrm{char} D = p \neq 0$, then $f' = 0$ if and only if $f$ is a polynomial in $x^p$ (that is, $f = a_o + a_px^p + a_{2p}x^{2p} + \cdots + a_{ip}x^{ip}$).

    (iii) (a) Let $D$ be an integral domain and $c \in D$. Let $f(x) = \sum_{i=0}^n a_ix^i \in D[x]$ and $f(x - c) = \sum_{i=0}^n a_i(x-c)^i \in D[x]$. Then $f(x)$ is irreducible in $D[x]$ iff $f(x - c)$ is irreducible.  
    (b) For each prime $p$, the **cyclotomic polynomial**（分圆多项式） $f = x^{p-1} + x^{p-2} + \cdots + x + 1$ is irreducible in $\mathrm{Z}[x]$. [Hint: observe that $f = \dfrac{x^p-1}{x-1}$, whence $f(x + 1) = \dfrac{(x + 1)^p - 1}{x}$. Use the Binomial Theorem 1 .6 and Eisenstein's Criterion to show that $f(x + 1)$ is irreducible in $\mathrm{Z}[x]$.]

    (iv) Let $I$ be a left ideal of a ring $R$ and $A$ an $R$-module.  
    (a) If $S$ is a nonempty subset of $A$, then $IS = \{\sum_{i=1}^nr_ia_i \mid n \in N^*, r_i \in I, a_i \in S\}$ is a submodule of $A$. Note that if $S = \{a\}$ , then $IS = Ia = \{ra \mid r \in I\}$.  
    (b) If $I$ is a two-sided ideal, then $A/IA$ is an $R/I$-module with the action of $R/I$ given by $(r + I)(a + IA) = ra + IA$.

    (v) (a) If $A$ and $B$ are $R$-modules, then the set $\mathrm{Hom}_R(A,B)$ of all $R$-module homomorphisms $A \rightarrow B$ is an abelian group with $f + g$ given on $a \in A$ by $(f + g)(a) = f(a) + g(a) \in B$. The identity element is the zero map.  
    (b) $\mathrm{Hom}_R(A,A)$ is a ring with identity, where multiplication is composition of functions. $\mathrm{Hom}_R(A,A)$ is called the **endomorphism ring**（自同态环） of $A$.  
    (c) $A$ is a left $\mathrm{Hom}_R(A,A)$-module with $fa$ defined to be $f(a)$ ($a \in A, f \in \mathrm{Hom}_R(A,A)$).

## Week 9

!!! question
    (Consider all the rings as communative rings with identity, and all division rings as fields.)

    (i) (The five lemma) Let 

    \tikzcd 
        A_1 \arrow[r, "f_1"] \arrow[d, "\varphi_1"] & A_2 \arrow[r, "f_2"] \arrow[d, "\varphi_2"] & A_3 \arrow[r, "f_3"] \arrow[d, "\varphi_3"] & A_4 \arrow[r, "f_4"] \arrow[d, "\varphi_4"] & A_5 \arrow[d, "\varphi_5"] \\
        B_1 \arrow[r, "g_1"] & B_2 \arrow[r, "g_2"] & B_3 \arrow[r, "g_3"] & B_4 \arrow[r, "g_4"] & B_5

    be a commutative diagram of $R$-modules and $R$-module homomorphisms such that the rows are exact. Prove that:  
    (a) $\varphi_1$ an epimorphism and $\varphi_2, \varphi_4$ monomorphisms $\Rightarrow$ $\varphi_3$ a monomorphism;  
    (b) $\varphi_5$ a monomorphism and $\varphi_2, \varphi_4$ epimorphisms $\Rightarrow$ $\varphi_3$ an epimorphism.

    (ii) (a) If $0 \rightarrow A \rightarrow B \xrightarrow{f} C \rightarrow 0$ and $0 \rightarrow C \xrightarrow{g} D \rightarrow E \rightarrow 0$ are exact sequences of $R$-modules, then the sequence $0 \rightarrow A \rightarrow B \xrightarrow{gf} D \rightarrow E \rightarrow 0$ is exact.  
    (b) Show that every exact sequence may be obtained by splicing together suitable short exact sequences as in (a).

    (iii) Let $R$ be a principal ideal domain, $A$ a unitary left R-module, and $p \in R$ a prime (= irreducible). Let $pA = \{pa \mid a \in A\}$ and $A[p] = \{a \in A \mid pa = 0\}$.  
    (a) $R/(p)$ is a field(Theorems III.2.20 and III.3.4);  
    (b) $pA$ and $A[p]$ are submodules of $A$;  
    (c) $A/pA$ is a vector space over $R/(p)$, with scalar multiplication given by $(r + (p))(a + pA) = ra + pA$;  
    (d) $A[p]$ is a vector space over $R/(p)$, with scalar multiplication given by $(r + (p))(a) = ra$.  

    (iv) The following conditions on a ring $R$ [with identity] are equivalent:  
        (a) Every [unitary] R-module is projective.  
        (b) Every short exact sequence of [unitary] R-modules is split exact.
        (c) Every [unitary] R-module is injective.

??? note "answer"
    (i) 采取图追踪策略.  
    (a) 设 $a_3 \in A_3$，使得 $\varphi_3(a_3) = 0$. 我们要证明 $a_3 = 0$.  
    设 $a_4 = f_3(a_3) \in A_4$，则 $\varphi_4(a_4) = g_3(\varphi_3(a_3)) = g_3(0) = 0$. 因为 $\varphi_4$ 是单同态，所以 $a_4 = 0$.   
    考虑上行为正合列，$f_3(a_3) = a_4 = 0$，所以 $a_3 \in \mathrm{Ker} f_3 = \mathrm{Im} f_2$，即存在 $a_2 \in A_2$，使得 $f(a_2) = a_3$. 设 $b_2 = \varphi_2(a_2) \in B_2$，所以 $g_2(b_2) = \varphi_3(a_3) = 0$.  
    考虑下行为正合列，故 $b_2 \in \mathrm{Ker} g_2 = \mathrm{Im} g_1$，即存在 $b_1 \in B_1$，使得 $g_1(b_1) = b_2$.  
    考虑 $\varphi_1$ 是满同态，所以存在 $a_1 \in A_1$，使得 $b_1 = \varphi_1(a_1)$. 进而 $b_2 = g_1(\varphi_1(a_1)) = \varphi_2(f_1(a_1)) = \varphi_2(a_2)$. 因为 $\varphi_2$ 是单同态，所以 $f_1(a_1) = a_2$.  
    考虑上行为正合列，所以 $a_2 \in \mathrm{Im} f_1 = \mathrm{Ker} f_2$，所以 $f_2(a_2) = a_3 = 0$. 故 $\varphi_3$ 是单同态.  
    (b) 设 $b_3 \in B_3$，我们要构造出 $a \in A_3$，使得 $\varphi_3(a) = b_3$.  
    设 $b_4 = g_3(b_3) \in B_4$，因为 $\varphi_4$ 是满同态，故存在 $a_4 \in A_4$，使得 $\varphi_4(a_4) = b_4$. 设 $a_5 = f_4(a_4) \in A_5$，从而有 $\varphi_5(a_5) = g_4(b_4)$.  
    考虑下行为正合列，所以 $b_4 \in \mathrm{Im} g_3 = \mathrm{Ker} g_4$. 进而 $\varphi_5(a_5) = 0$. 考虑 $\varphi_5$ 是单同态，所以 $a_5 = 0$.  
    考虑上行为正合列，所以 $a_4 \in \mathrm{Ker} f_4 = \mathrm{Im} f_3$，即存在 $a_3 \in A_3$，使得 $f_3(a_3) = a_4$. 而 $\varphi_4(f_3(a_3)) = \varphi_4(a_4) = b_4 = g_3(b_3)$，且 $\varphi_4(f_3(a_3)) = g_3(\varphi_3(a_3))$，所以 $g_3(b_3 - (\varphi_3(a_3))) = 0$.  
    考虑下行为正合列，所以 $b_3 - \varphi_3(a_3) \in \mathrm{Ker} g_3 = \mathrm{Im} g_2$，也就是存在 $b_2 \in B_2$，使得 $g_2(b_2) = b_3 - \varphi_3(a_3)$.  
    考虑 $\varphi_2$ 是满同态，所以存在 $a_2 \in A_2$，使得 $b_2 = \varphi_2(a_2)$. 而 $f_2(a_2) + a_3 \in A_3$，且 $\varphi_3(f_2(a_2) + a_3) = \varphi_3(f_2(a_2)) + \varphi_3(a_3) = g_2(\varphi_2(a_2)) + \varphi_3(a_3) = b_3 - \varphi_3(a_3) + \varphi_3(a_3) = b_3$. 所以 $\varphi_3$ 是满同态.